# Arcane Circle of Enlightment

As you approach the literal circle of a building, you notice the Gold Sigil above the massive doors that has eight watchful eyes looking towards the middle of the sigil which has a spellbook.
An older voice answers any attempt to enter, and states that testing has concluded for this season. If anyone wishes to join one of the orders, they must return next season. If the party asks, the next season is about three months out. They will be able to convince the voice with a moving backstory OR a successful charisma check with a DC of 15.
If they are able to get in, the eight eyes above the doors will begin to glow with different colored elemental energy. As the doors open, an old, very small tabaxi stands juxtaposed to the massive doors. His beard extends the length of his entire body, and he levitates about 6 inches off the ground.
Once the party enters, the tabaxi introduces himself as Lord Dedrix Keth of Mugwater, Saalrand. He explains that while he is the head of the Order of Bone and Breath, he has chosen to reside in the lower tier of the city to aid in the testing of new applicants within the circle.
As the party winds their way through the elegant halls of the circle, Dedrix begins to regail the party of the history and structure of the order, ;Centuries ago, during the reign of the lost Anatharian Empire, there came a period of time when those who opposed the use of magic gained the upper hand politically. During that time, the mages of Malkoros came under systematic persecution, and many were put to death for imaginary crimes. As a result, their numbers dwindled drasticaly and there was a good chance that all arcane knowledge would be lost. Faced with such a universal threat, the mages began to put their distrust of one another aside in order to simply survive...
THUS, the Circle of Arcane Enlightenment was born. Originally, all mages were welcomed as they faced a common foe, and the group was very closely knit. Magical knowledge was shared as never before, and the few wizards who did survive managed to grow quite powerful.
Over time, the anti-magic movement lost momentum, and the mage population began to rebound. Due to this trend, the members of the Circle started to become more selective regarding their peers, accepting only those that they felt could offer something to the fellowship. Originally, this was done either through recommendations from existing members, or through a vote of leadership, but after a time, it was decided that these restrictions were not enough to keep the Circle from becoming a mere social club for anyone with a trick up the sleeve and a matching robe, and thus, the test was born.;
The Test
The first Council of the Learned - heads of each of the Circle's member orders - met sometime around 17 AR and discussed many possible solutions. In the end, they settled upon a unique method for selecting new members - a special test to measure arcane aptitude and skill, as well as overall worthiness of the applicant. These archmages spent a great deal of energy and effort in the creation of this process, but it has withstood the test of time, and is still used to select new members.
To even be allowed to take the Test, an applicant generally must first be invited. The only exceptions to this policy are for apprentices of existing Circle members whose masters vouch for them, or for graduates of the Academy of Magic in Fairhope, Lumella. Furthermore, a representative from each of the eight orders must be on hand to administer the Test; this ensures that all aspects of the trials are sufficiently balanced.
Each of the Circle mages contributes something, but the magic itself dictates the largest portion of the Test, drawing influences from the very mind of the applicant. The Test is different for every single person, but one thing is common to all - it is extremely dangerous. Failure does not simply indicate that the individual is unworthy to join the Circle; the penalties are far more severe, including the possibility of crippling physical harm, loss of sanity, loss of life, and the loss of ability to wield arcane magic. Few take the Test, and fewer still pass it.
The Eight Orders
After successfully passing the test, applicants must then select which order they will pledge their pursuit of magic and study to. Once pledged, members typically remain in that order for life. Only under the rarest of circumstance and exception are they allowed to change orders, and this requires a lengthy process of council meetings. One may also be banished from the order if they act against their wishes or lose their arcane ability through, say, the defiance of their deity who blessed them with such power.

The Order of the Secret Storm - This order seeks power, and relishes in the use of it. The membership almost exclusively consists of mages who specialize in Evocation and Enchantment magics - those that deal in directly demonstrable power. Conflict is dealt with decisively and dramatically, preferably ending with the opponent in smoldering ashes. For formal occasions, members of the Secret Storm wear charcoal robes, with the dress of ranking mages trimmed in midnight blue. Tharandul Greystave, founder of Fairhope, is a member of this order.

The Order of the Inner Eye - This group is determined to delve deeper into self-perfection through the control and unification of magic and the body. Divination, abjuration, and transmutation magics are the areas of focus for this order. Those of the Eye usually care not for politics or maneuvering, and deal with their own matters internally. Truly renowned prophets and soothsayers come almost exclusively from this order, as few mortals can hope to match their prowess at sensing those things beyond normal knowledge. Mages of the Inner Eye wear deep purple for formal matters, and ranking members trim their robes in silver. Palissa Rivenstall, the seeress of Tharbad, Dramfark is a member of this order.

The Order of the Blood - This group of wizards concentrates on the protection of magic itself. Students of all magical disciplines are welcomed so long as they adhere to strict rules pertaining to the distribution of magic, magic items, and magical creation. Other orders view this self-appointed ;police force; alternately as a blessing or a curse, depending largely on the situation at hand, and whether the Blood agrees with the position of the order in question. Members of the Order of the Blood wear crimson robes on occasions where formal dress is called for, and higher mages use black trim to denote their station. Maelinda Irichros, warder of the Jagged Spire, the keep in which the king resides, is a prominent member of this order.

The Order of the Evergreen Oak - These casters seek to further the view of magic not as a supernatural power, but as a force as natural as the ocean tides or the mountain winds. Friends of and consisting of druids, they seek to exist in harmony with nature, and never work against it. Enchantment, Conjuration and transmutation magics are easily the most common disciplines in this order, though there are no set requirements that specify this. Those of the Evergreen Oak are known to often live the hermit life, caring not for the acclaim of society and culture. When called to formal gatherings, members of this order wear robes of rich summer green, and higher members trim their robes in brown. Mattue Ingatto, the renowned Archmage of Sundel, Caltorra is a member of this order.

The Order of Gilded Hands - Nothing is too great or too beautiful for these illusionists and charmers. They use magics for pomp, circumstance, and artworks, and some of these members are regarded as artists of great renown. However, the primary focus of the Gilded Hands lies in the manipulation of the perceptions of others; hence, most of their members deal heavily in illusion and Enchantment magics. Gold is the color of choice for this order, and in any gathering, their robes will be of this color. Influential mages of the Hands will trim their robes in silver. ; San'til'alda, the ancient wizardess of Istalindir, Freya is a member of this order.

The Order of the Walkers of the Planes - These mages care little for this world, instead focusing on that which lies beneath - and beyond - the surface of our reality. Their power is used to travel to planes of existence unknown to the common man, to contact beings from those planes, and sometimes, to harness those beings to do the caster's will. While it goes without saying that summoning and Conjuration magics are a virtual prerequisite for this order, it should be noted that skills in abjuration and enchantment are invaluable, as well. Walkers of the Planes wear vivid orange robes, with those having authority trimming their garb in red. Shylock Weir, noted sage and traveler of Malkoros, is a Walker.

The Order of Bone and Breath - Possibly the most feared order of all, those who belong to the Order of Bone and Breath study the relationship of the life force with the body, and how magic affects this relationship - otherwise commonly known as the ;forbidden; discipline of necromancy. The term necromancy often conjures images of evil wizards at the head of an undead horde. This is not necessarily the case; it is not unheard of for a student of this order to research methods to accomplish healing through arcane means, for instance. However, the stereotype is rather accurate, if somewhat limited - necromancers not only raise undead hordes, but are frequently responsible for many of the most grotesque ;experiments; known to the arcane world. Owlbears - fearsome creatures born of magic and madness - are a rather tame example of the avenues that some necromancers choose to explore. Not surprisingly, those of this order elect to wear robes of the darkest ebony to any sort of gathering. Ranking members trim their robes in a sickly, contrasting green. Lord Dedrix Keth of Mugwater, Saalrand is a prominent member of this order.

The Order of the Keepers of Mysteries - This order prides itself in the collection of magical knowledge for its own sake. This order is a prideful lot, even among mages, and they are often considered pompous and arrogant by their colleagues - it is no secret that they consider themselves to be Mystra's own. Students of every magical discipline are welcomed, however, as the Keepers hold all knowledge as precious. Members of this order wear robes of royal blue to formal occasions, and ranking members denote their status with white trim. Justinarius Dragonsblood, noted archmage of the Academy in Fairhope, Lumella, is a member of this order.