# Geopolotitical info

The King of Isodora
King Che Thuza the Conqueror reigns from The Jagged Spire of the innermost tier of the city Arman in the central realm of Isodora. He hails originally from a Goliath colonial town, Bunlodar, in the realm of Dramfark. After the Antaron empire collapsed from within due to civil strife over magic, lands, and socioeconomic issues, the realms were in discourse. Trade was poorly managed, and the inhabitants of Malkoros were starved and in constant war with one another. The world needed a unifier. Standing 8'6; with arms the size of medium tree trunks, Che Thuza answered the divine intervention from Therassor, God of Righteous Battle, that came to him within a dream. He united the goliaths, dwarves, and freefolk of Dramfark to march on the regent of Arman, Geza Duan, and take over the realm of Isodora. From Isodora, he marched west to the realm of Freya, down south through the realm of Saalrand, across the southern realm Caltorra, and through the eastern realm of Lumella to end the struggle of Malkoros either by force or negotiation.
Eventually, Che Thuza made vassal states out of Freya and Saalrand, allowing them to keep and manage their own lands but requiring them to answer any future calls to war. He established alliances with King Derrim Broadforge in his homeland, Dramfark, and with Iolas Dagolor, Prince of the Glades, in Caltorra.
Che Thuza was only able to establish mercantile trade with the kingdoms of the realm Lumella, as they have been split and his armies could not withstand a lengthy siege on the realm in search of unification. He managed to set up trade with each of the kingdoms within and returned to the Jagged Spire to rule his lands.
Freya
Lady Tsarra Qilee of Ilatol rules over the realm of Freya. Her devotion to Ineas has granted her long life. She is a a high-elf who rules in tandem with her Archmage advisor, ; San'til'alda. The two often travel to the Glades due to the Queen's relationship with Iolas Dagolor and her elven kin. The archmage is a puzzling character, as no one remembers how she arrived in Freya. All that is known of her origin, is that she appeared in the middle of the night and reeked of death. She is very reclusive and tends to send servants out for her errands; however, she is rumored to have such immense power that the armies of Che Thuza would be no match if she hungered for the throne of Isodora.
Dramfark
Derrim Broadforge rules over Dramfark from Khegdur. This dwarven cleric has an intoxicating piety about him that stems from his devotion to Solanis, God of Light and Life. Derrim comes from humble beginning as a miner in the Mines of Meltorra. It is said that army of Aboleth, Beholders and Duergar marched on the Mines during a surprise attack, and Derrim went into a deep prayer before falling asleep as the other dwarves manned the front lines. Half a minute passed by before Derrim awoke and began shooting light all over the mines, blinding the invaders. This rallied the dwarves as the momentum shifted, leading to Derrim being coined ;The Hero of the Battle of Meltorra.;
Saalrand
Hosdeth Grukhor reigns over Saalrand in the capital of Mugwater. He is a half-orc barbarian with a temper and a bit of a compromised mental state. This is not to say that he isn't intelligent, in fact, Hosdeth possesses a rather mighty intellect for a Barbarian; however, he was cursed with condition at birth where he encounters random fits of Truesight that let him see into the ethereal plane. Because of this, he does not always know what is real in front of him or just a keening spirit. At times, this has caused Hosdeth to have breakdowns where he violently rages his greataxe around, destroying structures and granting him the name of ;The Mad King.; His advisor cautions any who request his presence to speak softly, as one does not wish to trigger the king's condition.
Caltorra
Iolas Dagolor rules over Caltorra from Leolian. His relationship with Queen Tsarra from Freya strengthens the two realms' allegiance; however, though they are by all intents and purposes, married, they choose to rule their own countries and travel or scry to see one another. Iolas is coined ;The Prince of the Glades; but he is in fact king. The ruler of Caltorra is always referred to as ;Prince; due to elves' longevity and their immortal-like youth. Iolas is extremely loyal and is rather reserved in forming relationships, as he knows the corruption of man and the stubborness of dwarves. His royal guard are known as ;The Jinthaetas; or ;Guardians; whereas his shadow units and infilatrators are know as ;The Khinthafu; or ;marauders;. These two entities are crucial to the function and ruling of the Glades and Caltorra as a whole, for the Prince only travels for means of utmost importance or war. Iolas is a decorated general who is blessed by Lady Luck, Atotz. Because of this, his lifespan is even more than that of normal elvenkind. He has been fighting since the Freyafark-Isodoran wars - over 700 years ago.
Lumella
Simon Loan rules over the Northwest kingdom of Lumella, Repiweth, from its capital Niphia. His scruffy grey beard and facial scars have donned him ;The Scarred King.; The raging wars that have stopped and started for centuries in Lumella have been beneficial during Simon's rule, as his close proximity to Isodora allows him to sanction trade rather easily. Simon is a fighter who wants to see the realm united, but without the support of other nations, he finds this task impossible and serves to provide for his own people.
Abyan Longclaw reigns over the Southwest Kingdom of Lumella, Kukivalon, from its capital Taavine. She is a known Warlock of Othys who overthrew the previous ruling family led by Ilwaad Jarlwerth. Abyan's Ring of Necromancy was instrumental in her victory over the Jarlweths, as she was able to rally her troops and a surprising amount of undead to her aid. The Battle of Ubbin Falls marked the shift in her campaign, as she routed Jarlwerths forces and was able to march on Taavine relatively unimpeded. She has been at peace with the other kingdoms for now, but rumor tells that she wishes to strike Repiweth and begin unification of Lumella.
Safwan Al-Majzumi rules over the Northeast kingdom of Lumella, Pekar, from its capital Dalpool. Safwan is a very reserved leader who does not like to show himself to the publc. This is largely due to his secret worship as a Sorceror of Uztix. Safwan cares not for his citizens well-being or the unification of Lumella; all he wants is complete power of the realm and a life of exubarant luxury. He keeps the entrance of Umethrynn a secret from the rest of the world and soon plans an invasion to seize the underdark city's assets to aid in his ultimate plans.
Taji Usian reigns over the Southeast Kingdome of Lumella, Mairene, from its capital Cadena. The Paladin of Ineas does not care for unification and grandiose scheme. All he wants is the peace and prospetity of his people and to serve the Goddess of Knowledge. The king will defend his kingdom with his last breath but has made it clear to the other kingdoms that he is open to negotiation for the mutual propserity of the realm.